# SolarEVSE-Adapter
An EV kit or adapter to convert any North American J1772 EVSE into a smart WiFi power diverter.  Works with PowerMC to get power data or any power meter that can support MQTT data access.
This file describes the SolarAdapter or SolarEVSE kit.  The software is the same for both except for the name displayed in the software.  The SolarAdapter is a Tesla to J1722 adapter that has been modified with the SolarEVSE kit.  The SolarEVSE kit can be installed in either an adapter or any EVSE using a purpose designed hardware PCB Assembly.

The SolarAdapter tracks power not energy to match the total energy usage.  This is why the energy monitoring system you use needs to be able output the amount of power available in watts.  By adjusting the power, the desired energy amount is achieved to minimize what your electric company is charging you.  The power to charge an EV can be approximated by multiplying the voltage in by the amount of current being used by your EV.  Your EV and EVSE interact with each other by regulating the current.  In the US, your electrical panel outputs either 120V or 240V.  If you are using a Level 1 EVSE, then you are plugged into and using 120V.  If you are using a Level 2 EVSE, then you are plugged into and using 240V. 

The amount of current used is controlled by an industry standard called J1772.  As part of this standard, the minimum current is 6 A for both Level 1 and Level 2 EVSE.  The SolarAdapter’s maximum current rating is limited by both your EVSE or adapter used whichever is less whereas the SolarEVSE kit used in an EVSE has a maximum current rating equaling the maximum current rating of your EVSE.

The SolarAdapter is a WiFi device and communicates using standard database technologies.  If you are tech savvy and understand WiFi and common databases, then you can explore the advanced features such as creating fancy graphs, remote access and integrating into a home automation system.  Join our online forum community for more detailed information at 2MuchSun.com
